.\" Time-stamp: <96/10/10 13:08:59 ferguson>
.TH TAUDIO 1 "9 Oct 1996" "TRAINS Project"
.SH NAME
taudio \- TRAINS Audio Manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP taudio 7
[\-audio\ server] [\-input\ N] [\-output\ N]
[\-mic\ BOOL] [\-linein\ BOOL]
[\-speaker\ BOOL] [\-phones\ BOOL] [\-lineout\ BOOL]
[\-meterRunning BOOL] [\-debug\ where] [X\ args]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Taudio
is the TRAINS Audio Manager. It provides an X/Motif display for
monitoring and adjusting audio input and output ports and levels.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.IP "-audio host:device"
Connect to the AudioFile server at the given address. The default is
the value of the environment variable AUDIOFILE, if set, otherwise the
current host.
.IP "-input N"
Set initial input (record) level to
.IR N .
.IP "-output N"
Set initial output (play) level to
.IR N .
.IP "-mic BOOL"
Enable (True) or disable (False) the microphone input initially.
.IP "-linein BOOL"
Enable (True) or disable (False) the line level input initially.
.IP "-speaker BOOL"
Enable (True) or disable (False) the speaker output initially.
.IP "-phones BOOL"
Enable (True) or disable (False) the headphone output initially.
.IP "-lineout BOOL"
Enable (True) or disable (False) the line level output initially.
.IP "-meterRunning BOOL"
If True, the input level "VU meter" is enabled initially. The default
is False, which reduces the amount of work the Audio Manager has to do.
.IP "-debug where"
Specify that copious debugging information should be written to
.IR where .
If
.I where
is a hyphen ("-"), output is to stderr, if it starts with a pipe ("|")
the rest of the argument is passed to
.IR popen (3),
otherwise it is taken to be a filename to which to write. Be careful
to escape pipes and spaces from the shell.
.IP "X args"
.I Taudio
accepts all standard X Toolkit arguments; see
.IR X (1)
for details.
.SH USAGE
.PP
.I Taudio
first connects to the AudioFile server given by the \-server argument
or the AUDIOFILE environment variable. If any of the level options
(e.g., \-input) or port configuration options (e.g., \-mic) were given,
.I taudio
configures the server, otherwise the settings are left unchanged.
.PP
Input and output levels can then be adjusted using the sliders, and
input and output ports can be selected using the menus. Note that
input ports are mutually exclusive, while output ports can all be on
at once. The "VU meter" input level display can be enabled and
disabled from the Input menu. It is recommended that it be left
disabled once levels are set to reduce the load on the audio server.
.SH "AUDIO MANAGER MESSAGES"
.PP
The following KQML messages are understood by the Audio Manager. They
should be addressed with ":receiver AUDIO". Case is insignificant outside
of strings. Whitespace between messages is ignored (but rigorously
enforced within messages according to the KQML spec).
.IP "(request :content (exit :status N))"
Requests that the Audio Manager exit with status
.I N
(default 0).
.IP "(request :content (hide\-window))"
Causes the Audio Manager display to iconify itself.
.IP "(request :content (show\-window))"
Causes the Audio Manager display to deiconify itself.
.IP "(request :content (start\-conversation :name N :lang L :sex S))"
Ignored.
.IP "(request :content (end\-conversation)"
Ignored.
.IP "(request :content (chdir DIR))"
Ignored.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
DISPLAY			HOST:SCREEN for X server
.br
AUDIOFILE			HOST:DEVICE for AudioFile server
.SH FILES
.PP
None.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
Some.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
trains(1),
tim(1)
.SH BUGS
.PP
Not really a bug, but it would be nice to have some way to control the
"monitor" level provided by the Sun audio hardware.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
George Ferguson (ferguson@cs.rochester.edu).
