.\" Time-stamp: <Fri Jan 10 14:31:18 EST 1997 ferguson>
.TH TRAINS 1 "10 Jan 1997" "TRAINS Project"
.SH NAME
trains \- Run the TRAINS System
.SH SYNOPSIS
trains [\-sex\ m|f] [\-xinit]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The script
.I trains
runs the TRAINS system by performing the following functions:
.IP 1.
Examining environment variables;
.IP 2.
Starting the AudioFile server;
.IP 3.
Starting the Input Manager,
.IR tim (1),
and the Process Manager,
.IR tpm (1);
.IP 4.
Starting other modules by sending START messages to the Process
Manager using
.IR tim_cat (1).
.PP
This script is the place to start if you want to customize some aspect
of the TRAINS System, such as running a different executable for a
particular module, running an executable with different arguments, or
running a different set of modules altogether. See the reference
listed below for further details.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.IP "-sex m|f"
Specify default sex for
.IR tspeechin (1)
and
.IR tsplash (1).
The default is the environment variable TRAINS_USER_SEX, if set,
otherwise "m".
.IP -xinit
Special command-line option passed when
.I trains
is called from the OpenWindows Session Manager. In this case, it
is being run by
.I xinit (1),
and so execs an appropriate
.I xinit
startup script (which eventually re-runs the
.I trains
script).
.SH USAGE
.PP
You simply run
.I trains
from your shell. It will even check that X is running and, if it
isn't, will offer to start the X server with a configuration suitable
for demos. How great is that?
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables are checked by the
.I trains
script.
.IP DISPLAY
X Windows display. The default is screen 0 on the local host.
.IP TRAINS_BASE
Root of TRAINS directory tree. The default is installation-dependent.
.IP TRAINS_LOGS
Directory for session logs. The default is "TRAINS_BASE/logs".
.IP TRAINS_SPEECH_IN_HOST
Host to run speech recognition modules
.IR tspeech (1)
and
.IR tspeechpp (1).
The default is the current host.
.IP TRAINS_LISP_HOST
Host to run Lisp modules
.IR ttcl (1),
.IR tparser (1),
and
.IR tpsm (1).
The default is the current host.
.IP TRAINS_DM_HOST
Host to run
.IR ttcl (1)
(overrides TRAINS_LISP_HOST).
.IP AUDIOFILE
If set to HOST:0, AudioFile audio server runs on HOST.
.IP TRAINS_AUDIO_HOST
Host to run AudioFile audio server. The default is the same host as
used for DISPLAY.
.IP TRAINS_USER_SEX
If set, for example to "f", this is passed as the \-sex argument to
.IR tspeech (1)
and sets the default on the splash screen,
.IR tsplash (1).
.SH FILES
.PP
None. Er, that is, none besides the myriad TRAINS System programs it
needs to launch...
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
Prints some configuration information during startup.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
tim(1),
tpm(1)
.PP
George Ferguson, James F. Allen, and Brad Miller,
.I "The Design and Implementation of the TRAINS-96 System:"
.I "A Prototype Mixed-Initiative Planning Assistant,"
TRAINS Technical Note 96-5, Computer Science Dept., University of
Rochester, October, 1996.
http://www.cs.rochester.edu/research/trains/
.SH BUGS
.PP
Probably not in this script.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
George Ferguson (ferguson@cs.rochester.edu).
