.\" Time-stamp: <96/10/09 19:12:04 ferguson>
.TH TSPEECHX 1 "9 Oct 1996" "TRAINS Project"
.SH NAME
tspeechx \- TRAINS Speech Controller
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP tspeechx 9
[\-rows\ N] [\-columns\ N]
[\-stopdelay\ N] [\-clickAndHold\ BOOL]
[\-showMenus\ BOOL] [\-showLabels\ BOOL]
[\-showSpeechIn\ BOOL] [\-showSpeechPP\ BOOL]
[\-fontpat\ STR] [\-fontsize\ N]
[\-debug\ where] [X\ args]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Tspeechx
is the TRAINS Speech Controller. It provides an X/Motif display that
includes windows for viewing the results of speech recognition (both
SPEECH-IN and SPEECH-PP) and a button for starting and stopping
the recognition (which it does by sending messages to SPEECH-IN).
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.IP "-rows N"
Number of rows for each of the result windows (default 4).
.IP "-columns N"
Number of columns for each of the result windows (default 25).
.IP "-stopdelay N"
Number of microseconds between when the user releases the "Talk"
button and when the STOP message is sent. The default is 500000 (half
a second). This is useful to prevent people cutting off the end of
their utterances.
.IP "-clickAndHold BOOL"
If True (the default), a START message is sent to SPEECH-IN when the
"Talk" button is pressed and a STOP message is sent when it is
released. If False, one click sends the START message and a second
click sends the STOP message. The label on the "Talk" button is set
accordingly.
.IP "-showMenus BOOL"
Enable (True) or disable (False) the display of the application
menubar.
.IP "-showLabels BOOL"
Enable (True) or disable (False) the display of the module names and
their status.
.IP "-showSpeechIn BOOL"
Enable (True) or disable (False) the display of SPEECH-IN results.
Disabling the display makes the Speech Controller window smaller.
.IP "-showSpeechPP BOOL"
Enable (True) or disable (False) the display of SPEECH-PP results.
Disabling the display makes the Speech Controller window smaller.
.IP "-fontpat STR"
Set the font pattern to the given
.IR STR ,
which should have a single "%d" in it representing the point size. The
default is a pattern representing Helvetica bold.
.IP "-fontsize N"
Set the initial font size to
.IR N .
The default is 18.
.IP "-debug where"
Specify that copious debugging information should be written to
.IR where .
If
.I where
is a hyphen ("-"), output is to stderr, if it starts with a pipe ("|")
the rest of the argument is passed to
.IR popen (3),
otherwise it is taken to be a filename to which to write. Be careful
to escape pipes and spaces from the shell.
.IP "X args"
.I Tspeechx
accepts all standard X Toolkit arguments; see
.IR X (1)
for details.
.SH USAGE
.PP
.I Tspeechx
sends messages to the Input Manager to LISTEN to the output of
SPEECH-IN and SPEECH-PP, as well as MONITORing their status. The
output words are processed and displayed in text windows; the status
is displayed using a colored button. Either display can be hidden
using the menus, and in addition the Speech Post-Processor can be
taken offline, causing it to ignore messages until it is put back
online.
.PP
The
.I tspeechx
"Talk" button can be operated in either of two modes, depending on the
\-clickAndHold option value. If this is True (the default), a START
message is sent to SPEECH-IN when the "Talk" button is pressed and a
STOP message is sent when it is released. If it is False, one click
sends the START message and a second click sends the STOP message. The
label on the "Talk" button is set accordingly. See also
.IR tkeyboard (1)
for a means of starting and stopping speech recognition without using
the mouse.
.SH "SPEECH CONTROLLER MESSAGES"
.PP
The following KQML messages are understood by the Speech Controller. They
should be addressed with ":receiver SPEECH-X". Case is insignificant outside
of strings. Whitespace between messages is ignored (but rigorously
enforced within messages according to the KQML spec).
.IP "(tell :content (start :uttnum N))"
Sent by speech recognition modules at the start of an utterance.
Clears the appropriate window and sets the utterance counter.
.IP "(tell :content (word W :uttnum N :index I :frame F :score S))"
Adds a word to the display for the appropriate module.
.IP "(tell :content (backto :uttnum N :index I))"
Invalidates words at index positions
.I I
and higher (inclusive) for the appropriate module.
.IP "(tell :content (input-end :uttnum N))"
Sent by SPEECH-IN when it receives the STOP message. Ignored.
.IP "(tell :content (end :uttnum N))"
Sent by speech recognition modules at the end of an utterance.
.IP "(reply :content (status M S))"
Sent by the Input Manager when the status of SPEECH-OUT or SPEECH-PP
changes. Used to change the color of the status indicator on the
Speech Controller panel.
.IP "(request :content (reset))"
Clears the Speech Controller display and resets any internal state.
.IP "(request :content (exit :status N))"
Requests that the Keyboard Manager exit with status
.I N
(default 0).
.IP "(request :content (hide\-window))"
Causes the Speech Controller display to iconify itself.
.IP "(request :content (show\-window))"
Causes the Speech Controller display to deiconify itself.
.IP "(request :content (start\-conversation :name N :lang L :sex S))"
Treated as a RESET followed by SHOW-WINDOW.
.IP "(request :content (end\-conversation)"
Treated as a HIDE-WINDOW.
.IP "(request :content (set\-button)"
Causes the "Talk" button to be highlighted. Useful for replay.
.IP "(request :content (unset\-button)"
Causes the "Talk" button to not be highlighted. Useful for replay.
.IP "(request :content (chdir DIR))"
Ignored.
.PP
The following messages are generated by
.I tspeechx
to control speech recognition.
.IP "(request :receiver SPEECH-IN :content (start))"
Sent when the user first presses the "Talk" button.
.IP "(request :receiver SPEECH-IN :content (stop))"
Sent when the user releases the "Talk" button (in click-and-hold
mode), or on the second click (in click-to-talk mode).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
DISPLAY			HOST:SCREEN for X server
.SH FILES
.PP
None.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
Nope.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
trains(1),
tspeech(1),
tspeechpp(1)
.SH BUGS
.PP
I don't actually think so.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
George Ferguson (ferguson@cs.rochester.edu).
