.\" Time-stamp: <96/10/15 15:05:23 ferguson>
.TH TPVIEW 1 "10 Oct 1996" "TRAINS Project"
.SH NAME
tpview \- TRAINS Parse Tree Viewer
.SH SYNOPSIS
tpview
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Tpview
is the TRAINS Parse Tree Viewer. It provides a button that, when
pressed, asks the TRAINS parser for a summary of the chart for the
previous user utterance. This chart summary is used to draw the parse
trees in an X/Tk display. Successive parse trees are appended to the
display each time the user presses the button.
.PP
The Parse Tree Viewer is implemented using Perl version 5 and the
Perl/Tk package.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
None.
.SH "PARSE TREE VIEWER MESSAGES"
.PP
The following KQML messages are understood by the Parse Tree
Viewer. They should be addressed with ":receiver PVIEW". Case is
insignificant outside of strings. Whitespace between messages is
ignored.
.IP "(tell :content (parse-tree P))"
Sent by the Parser in response to
.IR tpview 's
request when the user presses the "Get Parse Tree" button. The parse
tree
.I P
is a parenthesized list of non-terminal and terminal entries.
Non-terminal entries have the form:

.ce
"NTX" NT 1 NTI 2 NTJ 3 NTK

where
.I "NTX"
is a quoted node-name consisting of a concatenated node-type and
number,
.I NT
is the node-type for the preceding node-name,
.I NTI
is the first daughter (also a node-name) of the preceding node-name,
and the sucessors are the second, third, etc. daughters of the
preceding node-name.  These daughter node-names are defined by
subsequent entries in
.IR P .
.IP
Terminal entries have the form:

.ce
"NTX" NT LEX W

where
.I "NTX"
is again a quoted node-name consisting of a concatenated node-type and
number,
.I NT
is again the node-type for the preceding node-name,
and
.I W
is the word for the terminal node.
.IP "(request :content (show-window))"
Requests that
.I tpview
de-iconify itself.
.IP "(request :content (hide-window))"
Requests that
.I tpview
iconify itself.
.IP "(tell :content (start-conversation))"
Ignored.
.IP "(tell :content (end-conversation))"
Ignored.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
DISPLAY			HOST:SCREEN for X server
.br
TRAINS_BASE		Used to find Perl libraries
.SH FILES
TRAINS_BASE/etc/pview/kqml.perl	KQML Parsing routines.
TRAINS_BASE/etc/pview/tree.perl	Tree Drawing routines.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
A few warnings.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
tparser(1)
.SH BUGS
.PP
I expect so.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Eric Ringger (ringger@cs.rochester.edu).


