.\" Time-stamp: <96/10/15 15:06:55 ferguson>
.TH TREPLAY 1 "10 Oct 1996" "TRAINS Project"
.SH NAME
treplay \- Replay a TRAINS System session
.SH SYNOPSIS
treplay [-audio BOOL] logdir
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The script
.I treplay
is a variant of the basic
.I trains
script (see
.IR trains (1))
that starts the TRAINS System in replay mode. This involves running
only the necessary interface components and none of the back-end
reasoners. It also runs an additional module, REPLAY, that parses the
"im.log" file in the given directory and plays back the messages in
real-time. An X/Tk interface provides a display of the messages
being replayed as well as "tapedeck-style" buttons for controlling the
playback.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.IP "-audio BOOL"
If True (the default), user and system audio is replayed. If False, it
isn't, and the audio modules and AudioFile server are not started.
.SH USAGE
.PP
You run
.I treplay
from your shell and tell it the name of the log directory for the
session you want to replay. User utterances are replayed by playing
the audio files recorded by the speech recognizer
.IR tspeech (1).
System utterances are recreated using
.IR tttalk (1)
(i.e., The TrueTalk speech generator). System displays are recreated
using the Display module.
.PP
The Replay display provides a display of the messages parsed out of
the im.log, as well as several buttons for controlling playback.
The "Play" button starts real-time playback. The current dialogue time
(from time 0 at the start of the dialogue) is shown in the upper left
of the Replay display. During a delay between messages, the delay time
counts down above the dialogue time. The "Play" button changes into a
"Pause" button that, amazingly enough, will pause playback when
pressed. Other buttons allow you to skip forward or back one message,
one utterance, or to the start or end of the conversation.
.PP
Note: As I write this, stepping forward one message or utterance does
not reset the delay countdown timer. You should pause and play (i.e.,
double-click the Play/Pause button) in order to skip a lengthy delay.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables are checked by the
.I treplay
script.
.IP DISPLAY
X Windows display. The default is screen 0 on the local host.
.IP TRAINS_BASE
Root of TRAINS directory tree. The default is currently
"/u/trains/96/2.0".
.IP AUDIOFILE
If set to HOST:0, AudioFile audio server runs on HOST.
.IP TRAINS_AUDIO_HOST
Host to run AudioFile audio server. The default is the same host as
used for DISPLAY.
.SH FILES
.PP
None.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
Probably not.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
trains(1)
.SH BUGS
.PP
The Perl script that implements the REPLAY module (i.e., that parses
the "im.log" and sends the messages) can get confused pretty easily.
For example, overlapping user speech utterances, where the user didn't
wait long eneough between utterances, will confuse audio playback.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
George Ferguson (ferguson@cs.rochester.edu).
