.\" Time-stamp: <96/10/10 13:15:15 ferguson>
.TH TSFX 1 "10 Oct 1996" "TRAINS Project"
.SH NAME
tsfx \- TRAINS Sound Effects module
.SH SYNOPSIS
tsfx [\-audio\ server] [\-debug\ where]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Tsfx
is the TRAINS Sound Effects module. In fact, all it does is play audio
files using the AudioFile server in response to KQML requests. This is
very useful for replay, however.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.IP "-audio host:device"
Connect to the AudioFile server at the given address. The default is
the value of the environment variable AUDIOFILE, if set, otherwise the
current host.
.IP "-debug where"
Specify that copious debugging information should be written to
.IR where .
If
.I where
is a hyphen ("-"), output is to stderr, if it starts with a pipe ("|")
the rest of the argument is passed to
.IR popen (3),
otherwise it is taken to be a filename to which to write. Be careful
to escape pipes and spaces from the shell.
.SH USAGE
.PP
.I Tsfx
first connects to the AudioFile server given by the \-server argument
or the AUDIOFILE environment variable. Then, in response to PLAY
requests, it opens the specified audio file and sends it to the
AudioFile server. The file is assumed to contain appropriate data, in
this case 16 kHz, 16-bit, linear-encoded data with no headers. When
the audio finishes playing, a DONE reply is generated.
.PP
Note that
.I tsfx
currently processes only a single PLAY request at a time. It would not
be too hard to get it to play multiple files simultaneously. It would
also be possible to have it recognize other audio file types and do
the appropriate conversions.
.SH "SOUND EFFECTS MESSAGES"
.PP
The following KQML messages are understood by the Audio Manager. They
should be addressed with ":receiver SFX". Case is insignificant outside
of strings. Whitespace between messages is ignored (but rigorously
enforced within messages according to the KQML spec).
.IP "(request :content (play STR))"
Plays the audio file named by
.IR STR .
When audio output is complete, a DONE reply is generated.
.IP "(request :content (exit :status N))"
Requests that the Audio Manager exit with status
.I N
(default 0).
.IP "(request :content (hide\-window))"
Ignored.
.IP "(request :content (show\-window))"
Ignored.
.IP "(request :content (start\-conversation :name N :lang L :sex S))"
Ignored.
.IP "(request :content (end\-conversation)"
Ignored.
.IP "(request :content (chdir DIR))"
Ignored.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
AUDIOFILE			HOST:DEVICE for AudioFile server
.SH FILES
.PP
None.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
Unlikely.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
trains(1),
taudio(1)
.SH BUGS
.PP
Unlikely.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
George Ferguson (ferguson@cs.rochester.edu).
