.\" Time-stamp: <96/10/15 15:03:07 ferguson>
.TH TPSM 1 "9 Oct 1996" "TRAINS Project"
.SH NAME
tpsm \- TRAINS Problem Solving module
.SH SYNOPSIS
tpsm [lisp args]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Tpsm
is a dumped Allegro Common Lisp image that implements the TRAINS
Problem Solving module. The PS module manages planning and plan
recognition services for the TRAINS System. It reads KQML messages
(requests) from standard input and writes KQML messages (replies) to
standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
You can pass any arguments suitable for dumped Lisp images. I don't
know why you would want to, however.
.SH USAGE
.PP
The Problem Solving module maintains a hierarchical goal tree as well
as a linear history of the problem solving state. Requests perform
operations on the goal tree and/or move back and forth through the
history. An important aspect of the PS module is that it supports two
different classes of requests:
.IP 1.
Interpretation requests, which test the feasibility of an operation
without actually recording it; and
.IP 2.
Update requests, which modify the problem solving state.
.PP
This allows other modules to pursue alternative interpretations prior
to committing to one.
.SH "PROBLEM SOLVING MESSAGES"
.PP
I am not going to attempt to document the PS module here. Further
information is available in online documentation and various technical
reports.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
The dumped Allegro CL image depends on a shared library for execution.
You can specify the location of this library using the environment
variable ALLEGRO_CL_HOME if it is not in the same place as when the
image was dumped.
.SH FILES
.PP
ps.log		Problem Solving log
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
Not many. Uses ERROR and SORRY performatives to indicate problems.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
trains(1)
.SH BUGS
.PP
Crashes regularly. On the other hand, its behavior has increased the
robustness of the rest of the system that has to deal with it. At
least it (usually) doesn't drop into the Lisp debugger.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
James Allen (james@cs.rochester.edu).
