.\" Time-stamp: <96/10/10 13:07:13 ferguson>
.TH TSHORTCUT 1 "10 Oct 1996" "U of Rochester"
.SH NAME
tshortcut \- TRAINS Shortcut Panel
.SH SYNOPSIS
tshortcut [\-f\ FILE] [-debug\ where] [X Options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Tshortcut
is the TRAINS Shortcut Panel. It allows arbitrary messages to be sent
to modules of the TRAINS System by clicking on buttons. The set of
buttons can be edited to add new buttons or modify existing ones.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.IP "-f FILE"
Specify startup file read to define the initial set of shortcut
definitions. The default is to read from TRAINS_BASE/etc/shortcut.rc.
.IP "-debug where"
Specify that copious debugging information should be written to
.IR where .
If
.I where
is a hyphen ("-"), output is to stderr, if it starts with a pipe ("|")
the rest of the argument is passed to
.IR popen (3),
otherwise it is taken to be a filename to which to write. Be careful
to escape pipes and spaces from the shell.
.SH USAGE
.PP
Double-clicking on a shortcut item sends the corresponding
performative into the system via the Input Manager.
.PP
The File menu provides the following items for manipulating shortcuts:
"New" allows the creation of a new shortcut, "Delete" deletes the
currently-selected shortcut, "Edit" edits it, and "Save As" allows the
current set of shortcuts to be saved to a file (for later use with the
-f option).
.SH "SHORTCUT PANEL MESSAGES"
.PP
The following KQML messages are understood by the Shortcut Panel. They
should be addressed with ":receiver SHORTCUT". Case is insignificant outside
of strings. Whitespace between messages is ignored (but rigorously
enforced within messages according to the KQML spec).
.IP "(request :content (define :label L :content C)"
Creates a new shortcut labelled
.I L
which sends content
.I C
(a performative) when selected.
.IP "(request :content (hide-window))"
Request that the Shortcut Panel iconify its window.
.IP "(request :content (show-window))"
Request that the Shortcut Panel deiconify its window.
.IP "(request :content (exit :status N))"
Request that the Shortcut Panel exit (with optional status
.I N
(default 0).
.IP "(tell :content (start-conversation))"
Ignored.
.IP "(tell :content (end-conversation))"
Ignored.
.IP "(tell :content (chdir DIR))"
Ignored.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
DISPLAY			HOST:SCREEN for X server
.br
TRAINS_BASE		Used to find default startup file
.SH FILES
TRAINS_BASE/etc/shortcut.rc	Default startup file
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
Maybe.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
trains(1),
tim(1)
.SH BUGS
.PP
Possibly.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
George Ferguson (ferguson@cs.rochester.edu).


