.\" Time-stamp: <Tue Nov 12 10:55:11 EST 1996 ferguson>
.TH TSCENARIO 1 "12 Nov 1996" "U of Rochester"
.SH NAME
tscenario \- TRAINS Scenario Chooser
.SH SYNOPSIS
tscenario
[\-f\ FILE]
[\-random\ N] [\-preset N]
[-debug\ where] [X Options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Tscenario
is the TRAINS Scenario Chooser. It provides buttons for specifying
either random or preset scenarios. It also arranges to step through
preset scenarios one conversation at a time.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.IP "-random N"
Specify that the Scenario Chooser should start with an "N random
engines" scenario.
.IP "-preset N"
Specify that the Scenario Chooser should start with preset scenarion
number N.
.IP "-f FILE"
Specify startup file read to define the initial set of preset
scenarios. The default is to read from TRAINS_BASE/etc/scenario.rc.
.IP "-debug where"
Specify that copious debugging information should be written to
.IR where .
If
.I where
is a hyphen ("-"), output is to stderr, if it starts with a pipe ("|")
the rest of the argument is passed to
.IR popen (3),
otherwise it is taken to be a filename to which to write. Be careful
to escape pipes and spaces from the shell.
.SH USAGE
.PP
Selecting a random scenario sends a message of the form

.ce
(request :receiver DM :content (config enum N))

to the Dialogue Manager, specifying
.I N
randomly-placed engines in the scenario.
.PP
Selecting a preset scenario sends the corresponding config message (as
defined by the DEFINE message that defined the button, see below) to
the Discourse Manager.
.PP
If a preset scenario is selected, then when the Scenario Chooser
receives an END-CONVERSATION message, it automatically selects the
next preset scenario (wrapping around at the end) and sends the
appropriate message to the DM.
.SH "SCENARIO CHOOSER MESSAGES"
.PP
The following KQML messages are understood by the Scenario Chooser. They
should be addressed with ":receiver SCENARIO". Case is insignificant outside
of strings. Whitespace between messages is ignored (but rigorously
enforced within messages according to the KQML spec).
.IP "(request :content (define :label L :content C)"
Creates a new preset scenario button labelled
.I L
which sends content
.I C
(typically a CONFIG message) to the DM when selected.
.IP "(tell :content (chdir DIR))"
Ignored.
.IP "(tell :content (start-conversation))"
Ignored.
.IP "(tell :content (end-conversation))"
If a preset scenario is selected, receipt of this message causes the
Scenario Chooser to switch to the next scenarion and send the
appropriate message to the DM.
.IP "(request :content (hide-window))"
Request that the Scenario Chooser iconify its window.
.IP "(request :content (show-window))"
Request that the Scenario Chooser deiconify its window.
.IP "(request :content (exit :status N))"
Request that the Scenario Chooser exit (with optional status
.I N
(default 0).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
DISPLAY			HOST:SCREEN for X server
.br
TRAINS_BASE		Used to find default startup file
.SH FILES
TRAINS_BASE/etc/scenario.rc	Default startup file
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
Maybe.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
trains(1),
ttcl(1)
.SH BUGS
.PP
Possibly.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
George Ferguson (ferguson@cs.rochester.edu).


